blog: Volume Health Monitoring Alpha Update (#27311)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2021-04-16-volume-health-monitoring-alpha.md

---
layout: blog

> title: "Volume Health Monitoring goes Alpha"

Author: Fixed

date: 2021-04-16
slug: volume-health-monitoring-go-alpha
---

**Authors:** Xing Yang (VMware)

> The alpha version of CSI Volume Health Monitoring feature is being released with Kubernetes 1.21. It was introduced as an alpha feature in Kubernetes 1.19. In Kubernetes 1.21, a second alpha was done with some design changes.

Author: Fixed.

* An [external volume health monitor controller](https://github.com/kubernetes-csi/external-health-monitor) watches volume health of the PVCs and reports events on the PVCs.

Note that the node side volume health monitoring logic was an external agent when this feature was first introduced in Kubernetes 1.19 release. In Kubernetes 1.21 release, the node side volume health monitoring logic was moved from the external agent to Kubelet to avoid duplicate CSI function calls. With this change in 1.21, a new alpha feature gate `CSIVolumeHealth` was introduced for the volume health monitoring logic in Kubelet.

Currently the Volume Health Monitoring feature is informational only as it  only reports abnormal volume health events on PVCs or Pods. Users will need to check these events and manually fix the problems. This feature serves as a stepping stone towards programmatic detection and resolution of volume health issues by Kubernetes in the future.

> ## How do I use Volume Health on my Kubernetes Cluster?

Reviewer: I think this section should be more towards kubernetes end users, so it's more like "The CSI driver you're using has to support this feature"

Author: Updated.

> To learn how to use External Volume Health Monitoring Controller, see details in this [doc](

Reviewer: This sentence should be under the storage vendor part

Author: Ok

https://kubernetes-csi.github.io/docs/external-health-monitor-controller.html).

To enable Volume Health Monitoring from the node side, this alpha feature gate `CSIVolumeHealth` needs to be enabled.

If a CSI driver has implemented the Volume Health Monitoring feature from the controller side, events regarding abnormal volume conditions will be recorded on PVCs.

External Health Monitor Controller will also watch for node failure events. This can be enabled by setting the `enable-node-watcher` flag to true. When a node failure event is detected, an event will be reported on the PVC to indicate that pods using this PVC are on a failed node.

If a CSI driver has implemented the Volume Health Monitoring feature from the node side, events regarding abnormal volume conditions will be recorded on pods using the PVCs.

Refer to this [CSI drivers doc](https://kubernetes-csi.github.io/docs/drivers.html) to find out which CSI drivers have implemented this feature.

> ## As a storage vendor, how do I add support for volume health to my CSI driver?

Reviewer: It may be good to start off this section by saying that there's a controller-side and node-side. And then split the section into 2 for each side.

Author: Split into 2 sections.

---
layout: blog

> title: "Volume Health Monitoring goes Alpha again"

Author: Should the title to changed to "Volume Health Monitoring Alpha Update" as well?

Reviewer 2: Yes, usually the slug and the title mirror each other. 👍

Author: Fixed.

date: 2021-04-16

> slug: volume-health-monitoring-go-alpha

Reviewer 3: Possibly:
```suggestion
slug: volume-health-monitoring-alpha-update
```

Author: Done

---

**Author:** Xing Yang (VMware)

> A second alpha version of CSI Volume Health Monitoring feature was released with Kubernetes 1.21. It was introduced as an alpha feature in Kubernetes 1.19. In Kubernetes 1.21, a second alpha was done with some design changes.

Author: Done

## Why add Volume Health Monitoring to Kubernetes?

> Without Volume Health Monitoring, Kubernetes has no knowledge of what happened to the underlying volumes on the storage system after a PVC is provisioned and used by a Pod. Many things could happen to the underlying storage system after a volume is provisioned in Kubernetes. For example, the volume could be deleted by accident outside of Kubernetes, the disk that the volume resides on could fail, the volume could be out of capacity, the disk may be degrading which affects its performance, and so on. Even when the volume is mounted on a pod and used by an application, there could be problems later on such as read/write I/O errors, file system corruption, accidental unmounting of the volume outside of Kubernetes, etc. It is very hard to debug and detect root causes when something happened like this.

Author: Done

> With Volume Health Monitoring, Kubernetes could communicate with the CSI driver to retrieve any errors detected by the underlying storage system. Kubernetes can report an event about this PVC so that user can inquire this information and decide how to handle them. For example, if the volume is out of capacity, user can request a volume expansion to get more space. Volume health monitoring is a very important tool that would be beneficial to Kubernetes users.

Author: Done

## What is Volume Health Monitoring?

CSI Volume Health Monitoring allows CSI Drivers to detect abnormal volume conditions from the underlying storage systems and report them as events on PVCs or Pods.

The Kubernetes components that monitor the volumes and report events with volume health information include the following:

> * In addition to gathering existing volume stats, Kubelet also watches volume health of the PVCs on that node. If a PVC has an abnormal health condition, an event will to reported on the pod object that is using the PVC. If multiple pods are using the same PVC, events will be reported on multiple pods.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Kubelet, in addition to gathering the existing volume stats will watch the volume health of the PVCs on that node. If a PVC has an abnormal health condition, an event will be reported on the pod object using the PVC. If multiple pods are using the same PVC, events will be reported on all pods using that PVC.
```
Slight rewording to state the component being modified earlier.

Author: Done

* An [External Volume Health Monitor Controller](https://github.com/kubernetes-csi/external-health-monitor) watches volume health of the PVCs and reports events on the PVCs.

> Note that the node side volume health monitoring logic was an external agent when this feature was first introduced in Kubernetes 1.19 release. In the Kubernetes 1.21 release, the node side volume health monitoring logic was moved from the external agent into the Kubelet, to avoid making duplicate CSI function calls. With this change in 1.21, a new alpha [feature gate](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/) `CSIVolumeHealth` was introduced for the volume health monitoring logic in Kubelet.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that the node side volume health monitoring logic was an external agent when this feature was first introduced in the Kubernetes 1.19 release. In Kubernetes 1.21, the node side volume health monitoring logic was moved from the external agent into the Kubelet, to avoid making duplicate CSI function calls. With this change in 1.21, a new alpha [feature gate](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/) `CSIVolumeHealth` was introduced for the volume health monitoring logic in Kubelet.
```
missing `the` 👍

Author: Done

> Currently the Volume Health Monitoring feature is informational only as it  only reports abnormal volume health events on PVCs or Pods. Users will need to check these events and manually fix the problems. This feature serves as a stepping stone towards programmatic detection and resolution of volume health issues by Kubernetes in the future.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Currently the Volume Health Monitoring feature is informational only as it only reports abnormal volume health events on PVCs or Pods. Users will need to check these events and manually fix the problems. This feature serves as a stepping stone towards programmatic detection and resolution of volume health issues by Kubernetes in the future.
```
Removed additional space.

Author: Done

## How do I use Volume Health on my Kubernetes Cluster?

To use the Volume Health feature, first make sure the CSI driver you are using supports this feature. Refer to this [CSI drivers doc](https://kubernetes-csi.github.io/docs/drivers.html) to find out which CSI drivers support this feature.

> To enable Volume Health Monitoring from the node side, this alpha feature gate `CSIVolumeHealth` needs to be enabled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To enable Volume Health Monitoring from the node side, the alpha feature gate `CSIVolumeHealth` needs to be enabled.
```

Author: Done

---
layout: blog
title: "Volume Health Monitoring goes Alpha again"
date: 2021-04-16
slug: volume-health-monitoring-go-alpha
---

**Authors:** Xing Yang (VMware)

> A second alpha version of CSI Volume Health Monitoring feature is being released with Kubernetes 1.21. It was introduced as an alpha feature in Kubernetes 1.19. In Kubernetes 1.21, a second alpha was done with some design changes.

Reviewer 3: I recommend rewriting this to make the past tense clear - v1.21 is already released.

Author: Sure.

Author: Done

## What is Volume Health Monitoring?

CSI Volume Health Monitoring allows CSI Drivers to detect abnormal volume conditions from the underlying storage systems and report them as events on PVCs or Pods.

The Kubernetes components that monitor the volumes and report events with volume health information include the following:

* In addition to gathering existing volume stats, Kubelet also watches volume health of the PVCs on that node. If a PVC has an abnormal health condition, an event will to reported on the pod object that is using the PVC. If multiple pods are using the same PVC, events will be reported on multiple pods.
* An [External Volume Health Monitor Controller](https://github.com/kubernetes-csi/external-health-monitor) watches volume health of the PVCs and reports events on the PVCs.

> Note that the node side volume health monitoring logic was an external agent when this feature was first introduced in Kubernetes 1.19 release. In Kubernetes 1.21 release, the node side volume health monitoring logic was moved from the external agent to Kubelet to avoid duplicate CSI function calls. With this change in 1.21, a new alpha feature gate `CSIVolumeHealth` was introduced for the volume health monitoring logic in Kubelet.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Note that the node side volume health monitoring logic was an external agent when this feature was first introduced in Kubernetes 1.19 release. In the Kubernetes 1.21 release, the node side volume health monitoring logic was moved from the external agent into the Kubelet, to avoid making duplicate CSI function calls. With this change in 1.21, a new alpha [feature gate](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/) `CSIVolumeHealth` was introduced for the volume health monitoring logic in Kubelet.
```

Author: Done

If a CSI driver supports the Volume Health Monitoring feature from the node side, events regarding abnormal volume conditions will be recorded on pods using the PVCs.

## As a storage vendor, how do I add support for volume health to my CSI driver?

Volume Health Monitoring includes two parts:
* An External Volume Health Monitoring Controller monitors volume health from the controller side.
* Kubelet monitors volume health from the node side.

For details, see the [CSI spec](https://github.com/container-storage-interface/spec/blob/master/spec.md) and the [Kubernetes-CSI Driver Developer Guide](https://kubernetes-csi.github.io/docs/volume-health-monitor.html).

There is a sample implementation for volume health in [CSI host path driver](https://github.com/kubernetes-csi/csi-driver-host-path).

### Controller Side Volume Health Monitoring

> To learn how to deploy External Volume Health Monitoring Controller, see details in this [doc](
> https://kubernetes-csi.github.io/docs/external-health-monitor-controller.html).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To learn how to deploy the External Volume Health Monitoring controller, see [CSI external-health-monitor-controller](https://kubernetes-csi.github.io/docs/external-health-monitor-controller.html) in the CSI documentation.
```

Author: Done

The External Health Monitor Controller calls either `ListVolumes` or `ControllerGetVolume` CSI RPC and reports VolumeConditionAbnormal events with messages on PVCs if abnormal volume conditions are detected. Only CSI drivers with `LIST_VOLUMES` and `VOLUME_CONDITION` controller capability or `GET_VOLUME` and `VOLUME_CONDITION` controller capability support Volume Health Monitoring in the external controller.

> To implement the volume health feature from the controller side, a CSI driver MUST add support for the new controller capabilities.
> 
> If a CSI driver supports `LIST_VOLUMES` and `VOLUME_CONDITION` controller capabilities, it MUST implement controller RPC `ListVolumes` and report the volume condition in the response.
> 
> If a CSI driver supports `GET_VOLUME` and `VOLUME_CONDITION` controller capability, it MUST implement controller PRC `ControllerGetVolume` and report the volume condition in the response.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To implement the volume health feature from the controller side, a CSI driver **must** add support for the new controller capabilities.

If a CSI driver supports `LIST_VOLUMES` and `VOLUME_CONDITION` controller capabilities, it **must** implement controller RPC `ListVolumes` and report the volume condition in the response.

If a CSI driver supports `GET_VOLUME` and `VOLUME_CONDITION` controller capability, it **must** implement controller PRC `ControllerGetVolume` and report the volume condition in the response.
```
We prefer bold to capitals for emphasis. Not essential.

Author: Done

If a CSI driver supports `LIST_VOLUMES`, `GET_VOLUME`, and `VOLUME_CONDITION` controller capabilities, only `ListVolumes` CSI RPC will be invoked by the External Health Monitor Controller.

### Node Side Volume Health Monitoring

Kubelet calls `NodeGetVolumeStats` CSI RPC and reports VolumeConditionAbnormal events with messages on Pods if abnormal volume conditions are detected. Only CSI drivers with `VOLUME_CONDITION` node capability support Volume Health Monitoring in Kubelet.

> To implement the volume health feature from the node side, a CSI driver MUST add support for the new node capabilities.
> 
> If a CSI driver supports `VOLUME_CONDITION` node capability, it MUST report the volume condition in node RPC `NodeGetVoumeStats`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To implement the volume health feature from the node side, a CSI driver **must** add support for the new node capabilities.

If a CSI driver supports `VOLUME_CONDITION` node capability, it **must** report the volume condition in node RPC `NodeGetVoumeStats`.
```

Author: Done

## What’s next?

Depending on feedback and adoption, the Kubernetes team plans to push the CSI volume health implementation to beta in either 1.22 or 1.23.

We are also exploring how to use volume health information for programmatic detection and automatic reconcile in Kubernetes.

## How can I learn more?

> To learn the design details for Volume Health Monitoring, read the design spec [here](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/master/keps/sig-storage/1432-volume-health-monitor).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To learn the design details for Volume Health Monitoring, read the [Volume Health Monitor](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/master/keps/sig-storage/1432-volume-health-monitor) enhancement proposal.
```

Author: Done

> The code repository for Volume Health Monitor Controller is [here](

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Volume Health Monitor controller source code is at [https://github.com/kubernetes-csi/external-health-monitor](https://github.com/kubernetes-csi/external-health-monitor).
```

Author: Done

https://github.com/kubernetes-csi/external-health-monitor).

> Check out additional documentation on the volume health feature [here](https://kubernetes-csi.github.io/docs/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There are also more details about volume health checks in the [Container Storage Interface Documentation](https://kubernetes-csi.github.io/docs/).
```

Author: Done
